---
layout: post
title: Velocity by CodeClimate
tags: [code reading, velocity, code climate]
---

Guest speakers: Noah Davis and Fred Creech from Code Climate

## Intro

Note: This product is changing rapidly.

Gives us insight into entire team or drill down into squads.

Primarily built for engineering managers.

## What This Tool Is

- Data viz that can inform team's decisions, processes, etc.
- Insights into trends, changes over time
- Identify and monitor risks

## What This Tool is Not

- Stack ranking for engineers
- Laws for good/bad practices

## Product Tour

Note: All metrics are "tuneable". Can be customized based on team processes/preferences.

### Definitions

_PR Throughput:_ Merged PRs

_Code Cycle:_ Time from first commit to merge
When we get to continuous delivery, then code cycle is commit to ship. But we're not there yet.

_Time to Open:_ Time from first commit to opening PR. Note: one of the most important drivers of cycle time

_Coding days:_ Any day when an engineer makes a commit. Note: Can exclude any contributor from reports

_Review cycles:_ Measures back and forth between reviewers and authors (aka time between comments and commits)

### Main Dashboard

Main dashboard highlights improvements + areas for improvement.

#### Things we're doing well

- ex. PR size
- ex. Time to Open

#### Things we can improve on

- ex. Weekly Coding Days
- ex. Review Cycles

### Metrics

#### Capacity
- Team size
- Coding days

#### Drivers

Things you can pull a lever on and drive activity. Find areas where we can improve.

##### Pushes per day

- Helps visualize feelings of productivity (or lack thereof)
- Puts data behind feelings or stuff discussed in 1:1s

##### Code Review

- Unreviewed PRs
- Time to Review
- Review Cycles

##### Efficiency

- Rework
- Abandoned PRs

#### Outcomes

Changes in above metrics over time.

Option to add markers for events, holidays. Clarify events that might impact productivity.

## Resources:

1. [Velocity](https://codeclimate.com/velocity/)
